We first created our structure to read the bytes into the structure. Used Python library 'dpkt' to get the packets in
byte form. We read the complete pcap file packet by packet. Parsed each packet based on standard header format of TCP.

We got the start time by checking if the SYN flag is set for each flow. Similarly, to get the end time we checked if the
FIN flag is set. We also got the MSS (Maximum Segment Size) by checking if both the SYN and ACK flags are set.

For getting the first two transactions after handshake is performed:
We made two dictionaries of the form:
{port,ip_address : (seq, ack, window size)} for sender to receiver and receiver to sender.

For the sender, we took the transactions from index 2 onwards as first two index stores SYN and ACK packet
for the handshake. Similarly, we ignores the first packet from the receiver side as that is SYN-ACK packet
used for handshake.

For calculating Throughput:
We stored all the buffer lengths which include both header and data which is sent over the network. We also,
stored the individual start and end time for each TCP flow. We divided both to get the required throughput.

For computing loss rate:
We get the count of duplicate sequence numbers sent by the sender from the dictionary made earlier to
store each packet. We traversed through the dictionary and stored the unique sequence numbers by storing
it in a set. The difference of both gave us the loss/retransmissions for the lost packets. Dividing it
by corresponding (end time - start time) difference gave us the required loss rate for each flow.

For calculating Average RTT and comparison:
We made a dictionary of the form {(port number, sequence number) : timestamp} for the packets sent by sender.
Same way, we made another dictionary {(port number, ack number) : timestamp} for the packets sent by receiver.
We made a function to calculate the RTT for each transaction by comparing the sequence number with ack number
and getting the time for the transaction. Finally, the value is averaged out.

For calculating the throughput, we directly applied the formula: (sqrt(3/2) * (MSS / (sqrt(p) * Average RTT)
We already had the required average RTT and MSS values calculated.




